>> Evan You: So let's take a look
at how this could be implemented.
So foo and bar are pretty straight forward
because they simply render static content
and since there's no data,
no props, we don't need this.
We can use the arrow function.
>> Evan You: Wait, no okay, so
this is how we do it, right?
So some people in chat has been
asking about functional components.
And this is in fact
a pretty good candidate for
functional components because
this is the purest form.
It doesn't really depend on anything.
So turning it into a functional component
really is just simple as adding that.
And you have a functional component, but
this doesn't really help much because
this doesn't really depend on any state or
props.
So we'll actually go back into 3.1,
and take a look at this one.
Our example component takes tags, and
we're referencing the props via this.tags.
The difference between a normal
component and or stateful component and
functional component is that normal
components have an instance,
but functional components do not
have a backing instance at all.
Functional components
as the name suggests,
you can think of them as just functions.
They take arguments in the return virtual.
That's it,
it doesn't hold any state of its own.
And in fact,
in Views version of implementation,
functional components
are expanded eagerly.
So if you use a functional component
inside a parent component,
this functional component's
render function will be invoked
eagerly inside that parent
component's render function.
So it's kind of expended
in line which makes it
extremely cheap because there's no
overhead of creating a backing instance,
holding all these data properties
in place and everything.
So the perfect use case for
functional components is for
performance optimizations when
you have a lot of leaf nodes.
By leaf nodes, I mean for example you
have a huge list, so it's probably
inevitable that you have to make each item
in the list a real stateful component, but
inside each of these components you
might have even more components.
And those components can
be purely presentational.
For example,
you're just rendering a button, or
just rendering a static avatar or
something, right?
These components don't really have too
much responsibilities in terms of state.
Some of them are used to
encapsulate some styling,
some of them are just like markup, right?
If you have these presentational
components which simply takes some data,
takes some props in and renders some
output depending on their props
then this seems a perfect candidate for
functional components.
And if these components are repeated
in many places in your app,
turning them into functional ones
should boost the performance of an app.
So let's take a look at
functional components.
All we need to do is really just
add the functional true option, and
it takes the same props
declarations as normal components,
the difference being that
>> Evan You: Instead of accessing this
prompt using this because we no
longer have access to this anymore,
this is passed in via a second
context object, second argument.
This is a functional rendering context.
So this context object
contains a few things.
So first, you can access context.props.
So props will be held in this context.
You can also have contact.slots.
It's a function.
When you call this, it's a function.
It'll give you resolved slot usage
because functional components may also be
used with slots.
Even if the example is functional,
you may be passing things here, right?
So how do we access these?
So they're passed in via slots, so
you can use the same name slots or
our name slots API.
This will give you the same as
this.slots as a normal render functions
and you can also have context.children.
So this is different from slots in
the sense that this is the raw children.
So anything,
even if they have slot names on them,
you'll just get the raw list of virtual
nodes that's passing into this.
So this is only used when you have
really low level concerns like you want
to do crazy things, but we're not
gonna talk too much about it here.
And then you can access
the context.parent which is
the context in which this functional
component was rendered in.
In this case, the root instance.
Remember, if you do something like this.
>> Evan You: If you're passing example
a functional component into another
component via slots, usually if
example is a stateful component,
it's entire parent will
be referencing foo here.
However in the sense of
functional components,
the context pairings will be actually
referenced in the root instance here.
It only references the context
that this function was expanded in
instead of the stateful parent.
This is because as we said functional
components are evaluated eagerly.
So this is actually expanded
before they're even passed to foo.
So when we are here, the instance for
foo isn't even created yet, so
there's no way to reference it.
>> Evan You: Okay, so we got through that.
>> Evan You: And in here, so we see that
it's cool that you can access props here.
So this will become
context.props.tags.map,
and this completes our
functional transformation.
But we can simplify this a bit further
in that we can use the structuring here,
so props .
So you can destruct multiple props here,
like this, foo, bar.
And some will find that it's annoying
that you have to also explicitly
declare props for
functional components, and
in the latest version of Vue,
it's actually optional now.
So you can create functional components
that don't declare any props.
It'll just bucket collect
all the things as props.
And yeah, so
this is a more concise version.
And if you use JSX, we have official
Babble plugging called Babble Plugging,
transform view JSX
that allows you to write JSX, which
allows you to do something like this.
[SOUND] it’s complaining, but
it doesn’t like JSX though.
It can do something like this
if you enable JSX in your app.
And the cool thing about
using JSX is you can
actually declare your components this way.
So usually when you declare
a functional component,
you declare it like this,
const example like this.
You still need this outer object
boilerplate declare a function true.
So someone in the Regis
team made a bevel transform
called bevel plug in transform
view functional component or
something which allows you
to just write it like this,
= Props and,
>> Evan You: Yeah,
so essentially,
>> Evan You: You
can treat them as just a one liner
function and to make it look a bit better.
So this is really just a function, and
we'll recognize that this
function is returning JSX.
And we'll compile them into
the full version here, and
then compile all the JSX
into h render calls for you.
So if you enable that plugin,
this is the most concise form of
functional components you can write.
And it's very similar to React
functional components as well.
So I believe we've talked enough
about functional components,
and we're gonna look at this.
Finally getting to our exercise.
So this is gonna be bar
>> Evan You: And
we want to implement this example
also using render functions, right?
So this example takes a prop,
>> Evan You: Okay,
and in fact we can make it functional and
be done with it.
Remember that we can directly return
another component as our own
root node inside one component.
So in this case,
what to return depends on this OK prop.
So if ok, we'll return foo and
if not, we'll return bar.
And this is pretty much it, all right?
And in order to complete the test, to pass
the test we need to implement a button.
>> Evan You: And yeah,
this should put us through the test.
Let me try that.
Okay,
>> Evan You: Expected to match,
it's in reverse, I guess?
>> Speaker 2: You have to
initialize ok to true.
>> Evan You: Yeah,
I think you got ok in your model.
Here, it didn't have this here.
>> Evan You: And right, okay,
it doesn't exist in the root scope, so
we need to declare that.
>> Evan You: And it passed, great.
So yeah, so
essentially this is again very concise,
toggling between two components and
the fact that you can return other
component as your own root node.